Hello. What's up?
I see you're still with me there, and you cannot imagine
how much I appreciate that.
So, here I have yet another section, full-packed
with new stuff for you.
And, what we're gonna build in this section
is a beautifully styled form,
with a lot of complex CSS going on.
So, you're gonna learn how to implement something
I call the solid-color gradient.
Also, you'll learn: how the general and adjacent
sibling selectors work and why we need them;
how to use the input-placeholder pseudo-element;
how and when to use the focus, invalid
and placeholder-shown and checked pseudo-classes
for styling forms; and finally, to finish this section
you're gonna use all that knowledge to build custom
radio buttons, to give our form a special touch.
So, taking a look at what we're gonna build here,
this is it.
So, this entire section with this background gradient
here going on, and then this box, where the form
is then actually located.
So, we have this box with this background image,
then this here is what I call the solid-color gradient.
But, we'll see that a bit later.
So, let's now start by actually formatting
this entire section with the background gradient
and then implementing this box here first,
including the background image
and this non-rectangular design thing here again. Okay?
So, this is again the same styles we had before
so, such as these edges here,
or these edges here on the cards.
This edge here.
So, once again we use that design element in here. Okay?
So, let's get to work.
So, we start by adding a new section.
(keyboard clicks)
At this one is the the booking section.
So, let's simply call it section book,
then in here, we have a row, okay,
because you want to center that box nicely in the middle.
And, then in there I'm going to place
an element called book. Okay?
So, this book here will be this entire box. Okay?
Now, why am I doing it this way?
Well, let's think about reusable pieces
and components again.
I think it's only logical, that we make this form here
to be a component, so that we could reuse it
somewhere else on the page.
So, all these elements here, that we're gonna code,
these all should be part of our component.
So, we will probably have a component called form.
Now, what will be unique to this page,
and what we really don't need to reuse, I think,
is the rest of the design, like this box here
with this background image and also
with this edge here going on.
So, that's not really a reusable piece, I believe.
Because, imagine that we have another page
with the form somewhere else, maybe even without occupying
the entire width here, of the page.
Imagine just like a small contact form somewhere on the page
and maybe we would want to reuse the form,
like these pieces here but not this entire thing
with this entire background image
and occupying all this space. Right?
So, what we're gonna do is to add all of these tiles
that are unique to the home page here,
once more to our home file.
And, then the form itself here,
that's what will be a component. Okay?
So, let's go back now.
And, that's why I call this here book, and then the
component later on is what will have the name of a form.
Alright. But, before doing that, let's actually start
by styling the section book, as well as the book class here.
So, in the home folder, put it here in the beginning
and close this one here, actually.
(keyboard clicks)
So, here at the end,
just add a new selector.
(keyboard clicks)
So, we want the padding of again, 15rem and zero.
And now, you saw that we had that gradient going on,
so, background-image.
(keyboard clicks)
Bringing our gradient to right bottom again.
Well, this here is not correct.
(keyboard clicks)
And now the colors.
So, color-primary-light.
(keyboard clicks)
And, color-primary-dark.
And now, the book class, which is remember that box
with the background-image.
(keyboard clicks)
So, let's actually start by adding that background-image.
So, url move up one level.
Img, and this one is called nat-10.
(keyboard clicks)
And, the background-size, of cover.
Now, one thing that I didn't mention yet,
is that actually instead of using a cubrid like cover,
we can also use a value here like 100%.
And, actually, 100% here means
the exact same thing as cover.
And, that's because cover stretches the image to occupy
the entire container, where the background-image is applied.
And, that's what 100% does.
So, also 100% of the width.
Okay, now just for testing purposes,
so that we can actually see what's going on here,
let's add a height to this entire box, let's say 50rem.
Okay, but again this is just for testing purposes.
Later on, we want the content of the box, of course
to define it's height.
Okay, but just to take a look at it.
And, nice, so here we go. Okay?
Now, let's add some rounded corners here
and also a box-shadow, like we have on the original version.
So, border-radius once again three pixels.
I think that's the one we've been using.
And, that's actually also a good candidate
for defining a variable. Okay?
Because, now I'm not really sure if we've been using
two pixels or three pixels, and so if we had a variable
that would solve it.
So, I encourage you to actually go ahead and do that.
I'm not going to waste more time with that here. Okay?
But you should totally do it.
So, box-shadow again.
(keyboard clicks)
And, a .15 this time.
So, a bit darker than usually,
because we have this colored background here,
and well, actually it's not really showing up.
Let's take a look at that.
Okay, I'm missing here the unit.
So, that's why it wasn't working.
Alright. So, now we have some subtle shadow here
and we can actually increase it to .2 or something.
So, the background is already dark, and so
we have to make the shadow a bit darker as well, obviously.
And, now just to show you the 100% with the cover,
let's decrease this and take a look at what's going on.
And, you'll see so 99% and then you'll see
that the image starts repeating here on this side. Okay?
So, imagine we put 50%, and the entire width
would be divided into two here.
And, of course, since the aspect ratio stays the same,
we also have some more blank space
and so the image starts multiplying down here as well.
So, if you put now 25, we would have a four-by-four grid,
I believe. And, yup!
So, if that's the style you're going to maybe,
I don't know, you can do that.
Even like something like 10%,
or, of course, we could also go higher.
So, imagine like 150.
Right?
(keyboard clicks)
All right, but of course, we stay with 100%.
Now, taking a look at what we have here.
What we're missing here is this design here. Okay?
Now, what we could do here, is to add another element
and then on that element we would use clip-path again
in order to make for this shape here. Right?
But, we are going to do something different
and that's what I like to call the solid-color gradient.
And, what is that?
Well, in fact, this is just another background-color
that we have on top of the image.
So, this is actually a gradient.
So, it starts from this side here, it's wide
all the way here and then here, all of a sudden
we changed to a transparent color here. Okay?
So, again, this is in fact really a gradient.
Let me show you how we do that.
And so, we're going to explore the gradient function here
in a bit more detail.
Because with gradients can do a lot of stuff,
and that's why I wanted to show you
this technique here, as well.
So, you see that we always have different ways
of achieving the same things.
And, I'm doing that here in this course, in this project,
so that I can show you as many things as possible. Okay?
So, we want the gradient to be on top of the image
and so we simply add another background-image here,
separated by commas, where the image is the second one.
Right?
So, linear-gradient and let's start with two colors.
So, rgba and so the first one is white. Right?
So, color white, but it's slightly transparent.
And, that's why I used this rgba here, of course.
So, let's start with using some other color. Okay?
And, once again I'm using orangered.
So, this is a color that I really like.
And this is where it would like,
simply withouth doing anything else.
Okay? So, from white to red.
So, next we should specify the direction here. Okay?
So, if using the too-right or too-right bottom here
all the time. Okay?
But, something else we can do, instead of doing that,
is to specify an angle.
So, if we say for example 90 degrees, then instead of
going that direction it was going, it would be now rotated.
And, so 90 degrees is specifically going in the x direction.
So, the gradient is going from left to right.
But, we can change that and put, for example, 105 degrees.
Okay? Then it looks like this.
But, for now, it looks pretty much the same,
but you'll see why we do it this way. Okay?
And now, comes the most important part of this technique.
Because, in here, we can actually specify percentages.
So, we can specify at different points of the gradient
which color there should be.
So, we can say that in the beginning, let's say
at 0%, we want this color here to be.
So, the black should be at 0%. Okay?
Let me actually give different lines
for these different arguments here. Okay?
So, 105 degrees and then this color at 0%
and then the orangered at the end.
(keyboard clicking)
So, 0%, then we can say that at 50%
we want this orangered color.
And so, this is what it's gonna look like.
Okay?
And so, what happens here.
So, we said out of 50% we wanted to be orange
and so here is 50%, and so here it's completely orange.
It's now a gradient happens between the left side,
which is where the 0% is and here where the 50% is. Okay?
And, we can all go even further and say
that at 50% we also want it to be white.
(keyboard clicks)
So, what's going to happen then?
Well, that's it; that's what's going to happen.
So, we say at zero we want white, we say at 50 we want white
and then at 50, which is right here the next step
we want orange.
And then, that is what happens.
But, experiment with some more values here.
For example, we could say...
Where is it now?
We could say here instead of 50, like 40. Okay?
And then, it would be white at 0, white at 40
and orange approximately here.
So, then the gradient would happen
between the 50 and the 40. Okay?
But, if we put these two values at the same number,
then what happens is that we have this, solid line here.
And, so we have physically a gradient
between two solid colors.
And, that's why I like to call this
the solid-color gradient.
Now, in order to make it look like our original version,
all we have to do is to replace this color here, orangred,
by another color which is transparent.
(keyboard clicking)
So, transparent, that's also a valid CSS color
and it's simply the absence of any color. Okay?
And, so we can use that to our advantage
in this technique here. Okay?
So, transparent.
(keyboard clicks)
Replace it here transparent, and that's it.
So, with this simple trick, we just created
this awesome effect here.
And, it was really simple, no clip-path
or anything like that.
Now, this isn't, of course, always possible to do
so, for example, in here, where we had this.
And, here we have this wedge cutting out.
Well, in here, we really had to use clip-path.
And, so different tools for different situations.
Alright. So, let's now start with our form, actually.
(keyboard clicks)
And, well before that, we actually need a container
where this form can be.
And so, let's call that one book_form.
So, book_form.
So, book_form will basically, simply be a container
sitting on the left side of this box. Okay?
So, basically sitting in here,
so that in there we can then put our form.
And so that, again, is unique to this page.
So, let's put it again here.
(keyboard clicks)
And, that's also why I gave it the element name here.
So, block element, so book is the block
and now the form is the element.
And so, let's say I wanted the width to be 50%,
so, basically, to occupy half of this entire box.
And, then let's give it some padding as well.
Let's say 6rem. Alright?
And so, now we're ready to start our form component. Okay?
So, let's go back here.
And, then in here we will have, finally, our form.
And, the form will also be an HTML form element, of course.
So, when we have a form, we should always use
the form element.
So, form, and I'm also giving it the class of form.
Now, the action is specifically the script
or the file, where we want the form to go
as soon as we hit the submit button.
Now this form is not going to do anything.
We just wanna style it, and we're not
gonna give it any functionality.
That's how we just make it go to like nothing here. Okay?
So, form.
Now, in here we're gonna have several groups,
let's call them.
So, one group for each of these; let me show you.
So, one group is for this field and the label,
because there actually is a label, so down here
you can see the label.
So, we're gonna implement that text jumping down there.
Okay?
And, here also is a label, which is invisible
so, yeah, no, you'll see it.
(keyboard clicking)
So, each of these will be a different div element,
so, that we can then, give it some space
between the next element.
So, form_group.
(keyboard clicks)
And, actually, this here is misspelled.
So, form.
And then, in each of these, we have an input and a label.
And, I'm sure you're already familiar
with these HTML elements.
So, input with the class form_input.
And, the type here that we want is text, in this case.
We also want it to have a placeholder, saying Full Name.
(keyboard clicks)
And then, we want it to be required.
So, we can put this little attribute here,
calling it required.
And then, the browser will not allow us to submit the form,
unless this field here is actually filled out. Okay?
So, that's what the required does.
And now, the label.
So, label, and I'm gonna call it form_label.
So, pretty straightforward here.
Now, as for the for attribute here.
I'm not sure if you know how it works.
Well, all we have to do, is to specify an id and input here
which we want to link to that label.
So, we add an id here.
(keyboard clicks)
And, I'm simply going with name. Okay?
And, so now, when I put this id in here,
then the label and the input will be connected.
So, let me actually show you that.
So, here is the input.
And, well actually, of course I have to put something here.
So, full name is the text that we want to display.
And so, let's see it.
And so now, if I click on this label,
which is connected to this input,
the input will be focused, like this. Okay?
So, again, I click and then this will be focused.
And so, they are not connected.
Great. So, one group
and the next group
will be for the Email address.
And so, there is actually a type in HTML5 which is Email,
and then the browser will automatically figure out
if we're writing in a valid Email address, or not. Okay?
So, Email address.
Again, we want this to be required and the name
will be replaced with Email, of course, in both places;
Email and Email, at the same time. Okay?
And now, just one thing that we're missing,
is that we actually have this h3 element here. Okay?
So, let's put that in there.
And, I will start copying it from the other section here.
So, where is it?
Yup. So here, let's copy this one.
And, put it here in our form.
So, right here.
(keyboard clicks)
Alright. So, Start booking now.
Okay? Maybe, that's actually a bit too much space here.
And, we also don't want it to be centered here. Okay?
And so, now it's very easy to do that.
All we have to do, is just remove this class.
And so, that's gone. Okay?
Now, maybe we don't want something that big here.
So, we can go with margin-bottom medium. Okay?
So, we already have a class for that.
Let's reuse it.
(keyboard clicks)
Okay.
So, with all that in place, we are now ready
to actually style these elements here. Okay?
And so, let's do that in the next lecture.